Nature of God and Relationship b/w God and Creation Verses

2:255 - 
255: "Allah - there is no deity except Him, the Ever-Living, the Sustainer of [all] existence. Neither drowsiness overtakes Him nor sleep. To Him belongs whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth. Who is it that can intercede with Him except by His permission? He knows what is [presently] before them and what will be after them, and they encompass not a thing of His knowledge except for what He wills. His Kursi extends over the heavens and the earth, and their preservation tires Him not. And He is the Most High, the Most Great."

22:6 - 
6: "That is because Allah is the Truth and because He gives life to the dead and because He is over all things competent"

22:17-18 - 
17: "Indeed, those who have believed and those who were Jews and the Sabeans and the Christians and the Magians and those who associated with Allah - Allah will judge between them on the Day of Resurrection. Indeed Allah is, over all things, Witness."
18: "Do you not see that to Allah prostrates whoever is in the heavens and whoever is on the earth and the sun, the moon, the stars, the mountains, the trees, the moving creatures and many of the people? But upon many the punishment has been justified. And he whom Allah humiliates - for him there is no bestower of honor. Indeed, Allah does what He wills."

59:22-24 - 
22: "He is Allah , other than whom there is no deity, Knower of the unseen and the witnessed. He is the Entirely Merciful, the Especially Merciful."
23: "He is Allah , other than whom there is no deity, the Sovereign, the Pure, the Perfection, the Bestower of Faith, the Overseer, the Exalted in Might, the Compeller, the Superior. Exalted is Allah above whatever they associate with Him."
24: "He is Allah , the Creator, the Inventor, the Fashioner; to Him belong the best names. Whatever is in the heavens and earth is exalting Him. And He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise."

50:16 - 
16: "And We have already created man and know what his soul whispers to him, and We are closer to him than [his] jugular vein"

24:35 - 
35: "Allah is the Light of the heavens and the earth. The example of His light is like a niche within which is a lamp, the lamp is within glass, the glass as if it were a pearly [white] star lit from [the oil of] a blessed olive tree, neither of the east nor of the west, whose oil would almost glow even if untouched by fire. Light upon light. Allah guides to His light whom He wills. And Allah presents examples for the people, and Allah is Knowing of all things."

24:42 - 
42: "And to Allah belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth, and to Allah is the destination."

s.112 - 
1: "Say, "He is Allah , [who is] One,"
2: "Allah , the Eternal Refuge."
3: "He neither begets nor is born,"
4: "Nor is there to Him any equivalent.""

19:88-93 - 
88: "And they say, "The Most Merciful has taken [for Himself] a son.""
89: "You have done an atrocious thing."
90: "The heavens almost rupture therefrom and the earth splits open and the mountains collapse in devastation"
91: "That they attribute to the Most Merciful a son."
92: "And it is not appropriate for the Most Merciful that He should take a son."
93: "There is no one in the heavens and earth but that he comes to the Most Merciful as a servant."

55:26-7 - 
26: "Everyone upon the earth will perish,"
27: "And there will remain the Face of your Lord, Owner of Majesty and Honor."

3:26-7 - 
26: "Say, "O Allah , Owner of Sovereignty, You give sovereignty to whom You will and You take sovereignty away from whom You will. You honor whom You will and You humble whom You will. In Your hand is [all] good. Indeed, You are over all things competent."
27: "You cause the night to enter the day, and You cause the day to enter the night; and You bring the living out of the dead, and You bring the dead out of the living. And You give provision to whom You will without account.""




Sells Reading - Hearing the Quran (159 - 196)

Minaret is a tower built for the call to prayer (adhan)
Call to prayer 5 times a day
tajwid - rules of recitation

Classical Arabic is based on quantitative system of vowels and consonants
Import effects governed nby rules of tajwid
  madd - elongation of long vowels at the end of verses and in other, defined situations
  ghunna - nasalized hum that occurs with certain combinations of n and m or doubled n
Quran recitation varies, two basic styles
  tartil - steady even chant, without elaborate melodic flourishes
  twjwid - more elaborate, pauses etc.
tahil - there is no god but God
wali - bears connotation of intimate friendship, close friendship

Sound Cues for The Tearing
  Verse Endings - verses ending witht he same sound
  Major Sound Patterns - balancing of consonants and short vowels with long vowels in the center
  Break - radical change
  Return - coming back to a similar pattern, but slightly different rhythm
  Ghunna - naselization
  Nonpersonification - partial personification that merits translation as "her"
    sometimes ha doesn't translate to her

Sound Cues for The Sun
  Verse Endings - the verses all end in assoanance/rhyme 'aha'
    'ha' is grammatically feminene pronoun for her
  Implicit Personification - personification of the sun, etc. are reminiscent of personification of wisdom
  Subject & Tone Shift - 
  Special Effect - weight of consonants to sound through at a critical moment in the phrase with a sense of foreboding

Sound Cures for Destiny 
  Verse Endings - each verse ends in double consonant ending in r
  Major Song-Vowel Pattern - a sound occurs in strategic places
  Ghunna - 
  Sound Figure - power and resonance into the sound movement
  Expectation Break - breaking of expectations

Sound Cues for Quaking
  Verse Endings - ...
  Long-A Sound Pattern - Quaking the earth is caught up in a cosmic shaking
  Contrast - interplay between the consonant/short-vowel staccatos and the a sound inverted
  Final Effect - idgham where final n is elided with the following y and given partial naselization at end

Sound Cues for The Calamity 
  Verse Endings 
  Alternate Sound Patterns
  Expansion - verses expand into longer semantic units
  Return and Sound Figure - hear dominant a now with strong gender dynamic and parallellism
