Revelation / Prophethood Quran Verses

42:51-53 - 
51: "And when We bestow favor upon man, he turns away and distances himself; but when evil touches him, then he is full of extensive supplication."
52: "Say, "Have you considered: if the Qur'an is from Allah and you disbelieved in it, who would be more astray than one who is in extreme dissension?""
53: "We will show them Our signs in the horizons and within themselves until it becomes clear to them that it is the truth. But is it not sufficient concerning your Lord that He is, over all things, a Witness?"

35:23-26 - 
23: "You, [O Muhammad], are not but a warner."
24: "Indeed, We have sent you with the truth as a bringer of good tidings and a warner. And there was no nation but that there had passed within it a warner."
25: "And if they deny you - then already have those before them denied. Their messengers came to them with clear proofs and written ordinances and with the enlightening Scripture."
26: "Then I seized the ones who disbelieved, and how [terrible] was My reproach."

11:12 - 
12: "Then would you possibly leave [out] some of what is revealed to you, or is your breast constrained by it because they say, "Why has there not been sent down to him a treasure or come with him an angel?" But you are only a warner. And Allah is Disposer of all things."

88:21-22 - 
21: "So remind, [O Muhammad]; you are only a reminder."
22: "You are not over them a controller."

22:52 - 
52: "And We did not send before you any messenger or prophet except that when he spoke [or recited], Satan threw into it [some misunderstanding]. But Allah abolishes that which Satan throws in; then Allah makes precise His verses. And Allah is Knowing and Wise."

3:79 - 
79: "It is not for a human [prophet] that Allah should give him the Scripture and authority and prophethood and then he would say to the people, "Be servants to me rather than Allah ," but [instead, he would say], "Be pious scholars of the Lord because of what you have taught of the Scripture and because of what you have studied.""

21:7-9 - 
7: "And We sent not before you, [O Muhammad], except men to whom We revealed [the message], so ask the people of the message if you do not know."
8: "And We did not make the prophets forms not eating food, nor were they immortal [on earth]."
9: "Then We fulfilled for them the promise, and We saved them and whom We willed and destroyed the transgressors."

41:6 - 
6: "Say, O [Muhammad], "I am only a man like you to whom it has been revealed that your god is but one God; so take a straight course to Him and seek His forgiveness." And woe to those who associate others with Allah -"

17:90-5 - 
90: "And they say, "We will not believe you until you break open for us from the ground a spring."
91: "Or [until] you have a garden of palm tress and grapes and make rivers gush forth within them in force [and abundance]"
92: "Or you make the heaven fall upon us in fragments as you have claimed or you bring Allah and the angels before [us]"
93: "Or you have a house of gold or you ascend into the sky. And [even then], we will not believe in your ascension until you bring down to us a book we may read." Say, "Exalted is my Lord! Was I ever but a human messenger?""
94: "And what prevented the people from believing when guidance came to them except that they said, "Has Allah sent a human messenger?""
95: "Say, "If there were upon the earth angels walking securely, We would have sent down to them from the heaven an angel [as a] messenger.""

53: 1-18 - 
1: "By the star when it descends,"
2: "Your companion [Muhammad] has not strayed, nor has he erred,"
3: "Nor does he speak from [his own] inclination."
4: "It is not but a revelation revealed,"
5: "Taught to him by one intense in strength -"
6: "One of soundness. And he rose to [his] true form"
7: "While he was in the higher [part of the] horizon."
8: "Then he approached and descended"
9: "And was at a distance of two bow lengths or nearer."
10: "And he revealed to His Servant what he revealed."
11: "The heart did not lie [about] what it saw."
12: "So will you dispute with him over what he saw?"
13: "And he certainly saw him in another descent"
14: "At the Lote Tree of the Utmost Boundary -"
15: "Near it is the Garden of Refuge -"
16: "When there covered the Lote Tree that which covered [it]."
17: "The sight [of the Prophet] did not swerve, nor did it transgress [its limit]."
18: "He certainly saw of the greatest signs of his Lord."





Mattson 27-77 (ch. 2 - the Prophet conveys the message)

Historicizing the Qur'an 
  Quran contains over six thousands verses (ayat)
    Verses revealed singly and in groups over 23 years
  Suwar range from 3 to 286 verses
  Exact timing of the revelation of each verse is unknown
  Quran does not narrate life of prophet or history of the community
    Different from Bible in this way - no early Muslim history
    Many Muslims did record reports of life of Muhammad ... - these are hadiths

  Shortly after life of prophet many began fabricating - around this time individuals had to cite sources
  Science of hadith is based on filtering reports for fabrication or error as well as scrutinizing chain (isnad)
  Quran is perfect preservation, while all hadiths and narratives incomplete attempts by imperfect individuals
  Historical narrative still give us
    idea of how the Quran effected segments of people
    context for the revelation that has influenced the was later Muslims relate

  Meccan verses are those revealed during the first 13 years, Prophet preached Islam in Mecca
    Islam gained converts, but faced harsh opposition from the ruling Quraysh
    Persecution increased until Prophet was endangered, he moved to Yathrib
  Yathrib became al-Medina and last 10 years took place here

The Medium and the Message
  Sound of verses themselves convey meaning
  Rhyming scheme - 74;1-5 all the words end in hir
  Reported that after receiving a number of initial revelations there was a pause - prophet worried done wrong
  Early years of revelation Quraysh struggled to explain Muhammad's ability
  Quran rejects charges of Muhammad as poet, sorcerer or a man possessed

God Is One
  Foundation of Quranic theology is monotheism - tawhid root means "one"
  Allah - word that signifies self-sufficient creator is God
  Quran criticizes Meccans for blind emotional attachment to traditions of forefathers
    Rejects claim that "we found our fathers doing this" as valid reason
  God does not have children - false concept
    Trinity - Quran asserts that mistaken doctrine is result of the human imagination
  Human imagination cannot simply comprehend God
  God has "99" attributes 

Moral Conduct and Its Ultimate Consequences
  In a land of no governing, Allah considered the guarantor of treaties and agreements
  Taking up Allah meant dropping all the other dieties, worshipping and reverence
  Basic idea underlying the Quran is that an hour will come of judgement
  Quran draws connection between faith and gratitude (kufr)

Servants of God
  ibada (worship) literally means servant
  literally meaning of islam is submission
  Common theme in Meccan verses is arrogance of wealthy poor who refuse to share
    Believer recognizes that all he has comes from God
  Saltanic verses - Quran reiterates God protects Quran from any error

Persecutation of Believers Past and Present
  Prophet unable to convince those holding the reins of Mecca to abandon customs
  In tribal Arabia, no individual secure without support of group
  Prophet protected by his uncle, chief of the city
    slaves could be killed by owner
  Many fled to Ayssinia to seek asylum
  Quraysh boycotted to try and hurt those they couldn't necessarily touch
  First person to accept prophethood of Muhammad was his wife Khadija
  Abu Talib (uncle protecting him) dies - time to bounce
    wife died same year - "Year of Sadness"

Establishing a Viable State and a Just Political Order
  First challenge in Medina was to establish political and social order
  Mecca primarily Quraysh, Medina very divided
  Prophet first projects
    establish a mosque that everyone had to attend
    establishing pact between Mecca refugees and Medina Muslims
  Can use violence to defend city 
  Eventually Medinians take Mecca and invoke Muslim state

Building Community 
  Medinian verses directed toward fostering this new community
  Building a community of rightous men and women, partners in faith
  Quran gives rules for gender interaction
  Quran established any accusation of sexual impropriety without 4 witnesses is slander

The Door to Heaven is Closed
  632 Muhammad died
  Revelation cut off - no more



