Qur'an Reading Notes 10/1


Jinn

15:26-27 - 
26: "And We did certainly create man out of clay from an altered black mud."
27: "And the jinn We created before from scorching fire."

18:50 - 
50: "And [mention] when We said to the angels, "Prostrate to Adam," and they prostrated, except for Iblees. He was of the jinn and departed from the command of his Lord. Then will you take him and his descendants as allies other than Me while they are enemies to you? Wretched it is for the wrongdoers as an exchange."

46:29-31 - 
29: "And [mention, O Muhammad], when We directed to you a few of the jinn, listening to the Qur'an. And when they attended it, they said, "Listen quietly." And when it was concluded, they went back to their people as warners."
30: "They said, "O our people, indeed we have heard a [recited] Book revealed after Moses confirming what was before it which guides to the truth and to a straight path."
31: "O our people, respond to the Messenger of Allah and believe in him; Allah will forgive for you your sins and protect you from a painful punishment."

55:14-15 - 
14: "He created man from clay like [that of] pottery."
15: "And He created the jinn from a smokeless flame of fire."

72:1-15 - 
1: "Say, [O Muhammad], "It has been revealed to me that a group of the jinn listened and said, 'Indeed, we have heard an amazing Qur'an."
2: "It guides to the right course, and we have believed in it. And we will never associate with our Lord anyone."
3: "And [it teaches] that exalted is the nobleness of our Lord; He has not taken a wife or a son"
4: "And that our foolish one has been saying about Allah an excessive transgression."
5: "And we had thought that mankind and the jinn would never speak about Allah a lie."
6: "And there were men from mankind who sought refuge in men from the jinn, so they [only] increased them in burden."
7: "And they had thought, as you thought, that Allah would never send anyone [as a messenger]."
8: "And we have sought [to reach] the heaven but found it filled with powerful guards and burning flames."
9: "And we used to sit therein in positions for hearing, but whoever listens now will find a burning flame lying in wait for him."
10: "And we do not know [therefore] whether evil is intended for those on earth or whether their Lord intends for them a right course."
11: "And among us are the righteous, and among us are [others] not so; we were [of] divided ways."
12: "And we have become certain that we will never cause failure to Allah upon earth, nor can we escape Him by flight."
13: "And when we heard the guidance, we believed in it. And whoever believes in his Lord will not fear deprivation or burden."
14: "And among us are Muslims [in submission to Allah ], and among us are the unjust. And whoever has become Muslim - those have sought out the right course."
15: "But as for the unjust, they will be, for Hell, firewood.'"



Satan / Shaytan

29:38 - 
38: "And [We destroyed] 'Aad and Thamud, and it has become clear to you from their [ruined] dwellings. And Satan had made pleasing to them their deeds and averted them from the path, and they were endowed with perception."

17:53 -
53: "And tell My servants to say that which is best. Indeed, Satan induces [dissension] among them. Indeed Satan is ever, to mankind, a clear enemy."

35:6 - 
6: "Indeed, Satan is an enemy to you; so take him as an enemy. He only invites his party to be among the companions of the Blaze."

s. 114 - 
1: "Say, "I seek refuge in the Lord of mankind,"
2: "The Sovereign of mankind"
3: "The God of mankind,"
4: "From the evil of the retreating whisperer -"
5: "Who whispers [evil] into the breasts of mankind -"
6: "From among the jinn and mankind.""

6:43 - 
43: "Then why, when Our punishment came to them, did they not humble themselves? But their hearts became hardened, and Satan made attractive to them that which they were doing."

8:48 - 
48: "And [remember] when Satan made their deeds pleasing to them and said, "No one can overcome you today from among the people, and indeed, I am your protector." But when the two armies sighted each other, he turned on his heels and said, "Indeed, I am disassociated from you. Indeed, I see what you do not see; indeed I fear Allah . And Allah is severe in penalty.""

28:15-16 - 
15: "And he entered the city at a time of inattention by its people and found therein two men fighting: one from his faction and one from among his enemy. And the one from his faction called for help to him against the one from his enemy, so Moses struck him and [unintentionally] killed him. [Moses] said, "This is from the work of Satan. Indeed, he is a manifest, misleading enemy.""
16: "He said, "My Lord, indeed I have wronged myself, so forgive me," and He forgave him. Indeed, He is the Forgiving, the Merciful."

4:118-121 -
118: "Whom Allah has cursed. For he had said, "I will surely take from among Your servants a specific portion."
119: "And I will mislead them, and I will arouse in them [sinful] desires, and I will command them so they will slit the ears of cattle, and I will command them so they will change the creation of Allah ." And whoever takes Satan as an ally instead of Allah has certainly sustained a clear loss."
120: "Satan promises them and arouses desire in them. But Satan does not promise them except delusion."
121: "The refuge of those will be Hell, and they will not find from it an escape."
