Reading Notes for 10/10:

Mattson 141-180:

Blessed Words - The Quran & Culture
  The Quran as the Word of God
    Early 20th century, only a minority of Muslims are Arabs
    Majority non-Arab speakers
    Impossible to reproduce the tajwid of Quran in a translation

    Connection between language and the substance of the revelation
    For Companions and people with the prophet the did not need to frame the experience in philosophical language
      Later on they did as people began raising questions about what phrases meant
    "Mu'tazilities" was group of theologians concluded it was necessary to describe the Qur'an as the created word of God
      Articulate a theology of Quran that maintained the perfect unicity of God
    Argument over theologians - Hanbalite vs. neo-traditionalist Asharites and Maturidis

 The Quran and Sacred Architecture
   Muslims united in belief that the Quran is the word of the Divine
   Islam rejected figurative religious art (Muhammad destruction of idols)
   Due to time and nature, different features of the mosque developed
     Mithrab - niche in wall indicating the qibla
     Qibla - site of elaborate decoration
     Minaret - a tower from which the call to prayer is made
   Quranic calligraphy serves as complement to support oral text - just like original Mushaf
   Rich Islamic architecture 
 
 The Elevation of the Quran
   Quranic verses generally elevated (in buildings, walls etc)
   Dishonor by lowering
   Quran revealed to Muhammad on a mountain
   Quran never placed on floor, put on high shelf etc.

   Guantanamo - punished prisoners by stepping on Quran etc, worse then other things
     Would suspend Quran above the ground to elevate
   Elevation should inspire feeling of reverence, humilioty and submission

 Language, Naming and Common Expressions
   Quran had profound effect on Arabic as literary language
   In 18th/19th century European powers sometimes encourage non-Arab Muslims to reject the language and script
   Alaturk - Founder of Turkish nationalism
     ordered that the Turkish language should be written in Latin rather than Arabic
   Muhammad changed names of some converts to conform to Islamic values and beliefs
     Servant of God -> Worshipper of God
   Quranic names for heaven or places in heaven are often female names
   Common expressions used by Arabs and non-Arab Muslims
     in sha Allah - if God wills
     ma sha Allah - what God has willed
     alhamdu lillah - Praise if for God
     bismallah - in the name of God

 Ritual Purity and Purifying Rituals
   Never touch Quran unless in state of ritual purity
     Both physical and spiritual

   Islam does not view the body as a source of sin or evil
   When fasting cannot eat, drink, experience sexual intimacy or engage in arguments
   Scholars divided over whether menstruating woman can touch the mushaf

   Quran refers to heart as locus of spiritual health
     Heart open to God is soft, closed is hard or diseased
   Weak heat means the jinn could get you - jinn made from fire
   Posession of jinn is possible

   jinn possession is vast, eclectic and undocumented
   exorcisms outside of formal curriculum
   Possession confirmed by reciting the Quran - agitation = uh oh
   Traditional societies write verses on paper, necklaces other items
     Troubling because healing power in water, paper and pendants but not God

  
 Death, Mourning and the Afterlife
   Death is a means God uses to motivate humanity towards greater spiritual refinemnet
   Upon death angels remove our soul from our body
   Each soul will have ultimate accounting before God on judgement day
   Enticing is Paradise and Divine Presence
   Vivd descriptions of hellfire

   A believer accepts time of death is decreed by God

   Pillars of Faith
     Belief in God
     the angels
     the scriptures
     and the prophets
     believe in life after death
     the acceptance that is is God who ultimately has power over all thing

   Theodicry - why evil is part of the divine decree
     How can a merciful God allow evil to exist?
     How can humans be held morally accountable when God is force behind everything?

     qadar - "the good and evil of it"
     
   Communal obligation to hold funeral prayer before burial 
   Those who die exist in barzakh
     a realm inaccessible to living
     alive pray for dead but not backwards - one sided
   "ziyara" - visiting the graves of the righteous
   Muhammad didn't want "death monuments" - happened anyways


Nature Signs / Symbolism / Parables

3:190-1 -
190: "Indeed, in the creation of the heavens and the earth and the alternation of the night and the day are signs for those of understanding."
191: "Who remember Allah while standing or sitting or [lying] on their sides and give thought to the creation of the heavens and the earth, [saying], "Our Lord, You did not create this aimlessly; exalted are You [above such a thing]; then protect us from the punishment of the Fire."

22:73 - 
73: "O people, an example is presented, so listen to it. Indeed, those you invoke besides Allah will never create [as much as] a fly, even if they gathered together for that purpose. And if the fly should steal away from them a [tiny] thing, they could not recover it from him. Weak are the pursuer and pursued."

27:60-65 - 
60: "[More precisely], is He [not best] who created the heavens and the earth and sent down for you rain from the sky, causing to grow thereby gardens of joyful beauty which you could not [otherwise] have grown the trees thereof? Is there a deity with Allah ? [No], but they are a people who ascribe equals [to Him]."
61: "Is He [not best] who made the earth a stable ground and placed within it rivers and made for it firmly set mountains and placed between the two seas a barrier? Is there a deity with Allah ? [No], but most of them do not know."
62: "Is He [not best] who responds to the desperate one when he calls upon Him and removes evil and makes you inheritors of the earth? Is there a deity with Allah ? Little do you remember."
63: "Is He [not best] who guides you through the darknesses of the land and sea and who sends the winds as good tidings before His mercy? Is there a deity with Allah ? High is Allah above whatever they associate with Him."
64: "Is He [not best] who guides you through the darknesses of the land and sea and who sends the winds as good tidings before His mercy? Is there a deity with Allah ? High is Allah above whatever they associate with Him."
65: "Say, "None in the heavens and earth knows the unseen except Allah , and they do not perceive when they will be resurrected.""

29:41 - 
41: "The example of those who take allies other than Allah is like that of the spider who takes a home. And indeed, the weakest of homes is the home of the spider, if they only knew."

13:16 - 
16: "Say, "Who is Lord of the heavens and earth?" Say, " Allah ." Say, "Have you then taken besides Him allies not possessing [even] for themselves any benefit or any harm?" Say, "Is the blind equivalent to the seeing? Or is darkness equivalent to light? Or have they attributed to Allah partners who created like His creation so that the creation [of each] seemed similar to them?" Say, " Allah is the Creator of all things, and He is the One, the Prevailing.""

14:24-7 - 
24: "Have you not considered how Allah presents an example, [making] a good word like a good tree, whose root is firmly fixed and its branches [high] in the sky?"
25: "It produces its fruit all the time, by permission of its Lord. And Allah presents examples for the people that perhaps they will be reminded."
26: "And the example of a bad word is like a bad tree, uprooted from the surface of the earth, not having any stability."
27: "Allah keeps firm those who believe, with the firm word, in worldly life and in the Hereafter. And Allah sends astray the wrongdoers. And Allah does what He wills."


24:39-40 - 
39: "But those who disbelieved - their deeds are like a mirage in a lowland which a thirsty one thinks is water until, when he comes to it, he finds it is nothing but finds Allah before Him, and He will pay him in full his due; and Allah is swift in account."
40: "Or [they are] like darknesses within an unfathomable sea which is covered by waves, upon which are waves, over which are clouds - darknesses, some of them upon others. When one puts out his hand [therein], he can hardly see it. And he to whom Allah has not granted light - for him there is no light."

75:36-40 - 
36: "Does man think that he will be left neglected?"
37: "Had he not been a sperm from semen emitted?"
38: "Then he was a clinging clot, and [ Allah ] created [his form] and proportioned [him]"
39: "And made of him two mates, the male and the female."
40: "Is not that [Creator] Able to give life to the dead?"

