Bible Moses (Ex. 1-20, 24, 31:12-3; Num. 11)

Ex. 1-20
Many names of children of Israel
Children of Israel increased abundantly, multiplied
Arose a new king over Egypt, which didn't know Joseph
Enslaved the people  and made them serve
King of Egypt says to Hebrew midwives..
  If son kill him if daughter let them live
  Midwives feared God and didn't do it
  God dealt well with midwives and the abundance continuedo

Ex. 24
Moses went and told people Lord's words and laws
Got up early and built altar at foot of moutain and set up 12 stone tablets
Sacrificed bulls and sealed covenant
Went up Mt. Sinai for six days or 7th lord called to Moses
Moses stayed on mountain for 40 days and 40 nights

Ex. 31:12-3
The blood will be a sign for you on the houses where you are
When I see blood I will pass over you
No destructive plague will touch you when I strike Egypt

Num 11
People complained about hardships in the hearing of the Lord
Fire -> people cried to Moses and it died down
People are hungry
Lord says bring me 70 of Israel's elders who are leaders
Prepare for tomorrow you will eat meat until you loathe it
2 didn't come -- are you jealous?



Quran - Moses/Aaron/Pharaoh
7:103-156 - 
Moses says I am messenger for God
Pharaoh says prove it and show me. Moses throws staff and becomes snake
Pharaoh thinks he is a magician
Magicians lose and fall down in prostration to Allah
Pharaoh says you believe in Moses before I gave you permission, I will kill you all
Pharoah says kill sons and keep woman alive
God drowned bad people and gave good ones land
People behaved ignorantly -- idols but be forgived
Aww yeah then commandments

10:75-93 - 
Pharaoh says obviously Moses is magic
Pharaoh syas bring me all magicians
Nobody believes Moses

26:10-68 - 
Moses thinks people will deny it
God says be brave I am with you
Pharaoh says did we not raise you among us as a child
Pharaoh "If you take a God other than me, I will place you among those imprisoned"
Moses "Even if I brought proof"
Moses kicks other magicians asses
Moses splits the sea and drowns the other

28:1-46 - 
Pharaoh exalted himself and oppressed people
We inspired to mother of Moses, suckle him but when you fear for him cast him into the river
Family of Pharaoh picked him out of river -- adopted him
Two people fighting in city, Moses kills one but is forgiven

20:1 - 98 - 
No diety but Allah, has the story of Moses reached you?
Staff becomes snake, but hand to side it will come out free with disease
Go to Pharaoh and fear not
Pharoah denied and refused
Punished lallaa
People are still idiots
God is supreme

18:60-82 - 
While traveling lose/forget fish
Go looking servant an dMoses go to town and ask people, they all refuse
Wall and Ship
 ** NOT QUITE CLEAR FIGURE THIS OUT / READ AGAIN




Solomon 1 Kings 1, 3-5, 8, 10-11
1 - King David old, could not keep warm even with covers
Servants said let's look for young virgin to take care and lay to keep warm
Adonijah becomes king after sacrificing a lot of shit
King David makes Solomon king

3 - Solomon makes alliance with Pharaoh and maries his daughter
People still sacrificing
Solomon asks for wisdom
Returns to Jerusalem stands before ark of Lord's covenant and sacrifices
Two women and the baby, cut the baby in two! Wisdom aww yeah

4 - Solomon rules over Israel
People numerous and happy
Solomon has lots of stuff and is very happy

5 - Solomon building a temple for Lord

8 - 
